# Netflix-recommender-system
The data given to us is regarding the contents uploaded by the streaming giant Netflix on their platform between the years 2008 and 2021. For each content (Movie or TV-Show) we have the title, cast, directors, country of production, and description of the content. We aim to cluster similar contents together which can help in the recommendation of proper content to a user.
After loading the dataset we look for null values in the dataset and realize that there is nothing we can impute in place of the null values because most of the variables in our dataset are text-based. So we decide whenever we are using a column containing null values, we will drop the observations if we are using it for visualization purposes and we replace null values with empty spaces/blanks for clustering and recommendation purposes.
Next, we obtain the top 10 directors, actors, and countries by the number of contents they have been a part of. We see that the United States and India are responsible for more than 50% of the content available in this dataset. The top 10 actors list is populated by Indian actors but only one Indian director David Dhawan appears in the top 10 directors list. This tells us that a lot of missing values from the Director column belong to Indian content. Next, we see when(month) movies are added to the platform. We see that November and December see the highest number of movies added in a year. This is evident as most content belongs to India and United States, and both countries see a lot of festivals around the end of the year. We also see how the rating of Movies and TV-Shows released over the years has changed. We notice that the percentage of PG-13 content has decreased over the years whereas the percentage of R-Rated content has increased.
Next, we check if Netflix has been focusing more on TV-Shows than Movies in recent years. We conduct hypothesis testing with the null hypothesis being Netflix has been focusing equally on Movies and TV-Shows, the outcome is that we fail to reject the null hypothesis. Hence, Netflix may have not been focusing more on TV-Shows.
Now, coming to the recommendation systems we first make a very generic recommendation system based on k-Nearest Neighbours using columns type and listed_in only. Next, we use all the text-based columns to make a dataset of 5788 variables. Using this we perform k-Means for clustering purposes and a recommender system based on k-Nearest Neighbors which works exceptionally well. We did not use Hierarchal clustering because of high dimensionality.
